---
title: \[NS16\] Sex and the Brain
header: header
toc: true
toc_sticky: true
toc_label: "Contents"
excerpt: Sex and the Brain
date: 2023-10-09
categories:
    - neuroscience
tags:
  - languages:Korean
  - languages:English
---



<style>
    a.links {
        font-size: 4px;
    }
    span.cf {
        background-color: #fef;
    }
    span.imp {
        color: #f00;
        font-style: bold;
    }
    span.highlight {
        background-color: #ff0;
    }
    div.cf {
        background-color: #fef;
    }
    span.red {
        color: #f00;
    }
    span.green {
        color: #0f0;
    }
    span.blue {
        color: #00f;
    }
</style>

<script type="text/javascript" 
src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS_HTML">
</script>


### 1. Sex & Gender

- sex : Biological state of being **male** or **female**
- Determined by...
  - chromosome
  - hormones
  - body anatomy.
- gender : Set of behaviors or attributes a culture associates with **men** and **women**.

- Gender-specific behaviors: nature(biology)? nurture(society)?
  - introspection, upbringing, life experiences, societal expectations, genetics, hormones

gender identity : Our perception of our own gender

#### 1.1. The Genetics of Sex

- genotype
- genetic sex

XY genotype has serious medical consequences:
- **X-linked disease** is *more susceptable* to male than female
  - A female with a defective gene on an X chromosome => may experience no negative consequence if the gene on the other X is normal.
  - While any **defect in the single X chromosome** of a male can lead to a **developmental defect** (==X-linked disease).

  - red-green color blindness
  - hemophilia
  - Duchenne muscular dystrophy

- X: ~800 genes
- Y: ~50 genes

- sex-determining region of the Y chromosome (SRY)
  - codes for tetis-determining factor (TDF)
  - absent => develops as a female.

##### Sex Chromosome Abnormalities

- Turner syndrome
  - 빈도 : 
  - 증상 : 
- Klinefelter syndrome
  - 빈도 : 
  - 증상 : 

#### 1.2. Sexual Development and Differentiation

The development of gonads.

The Mullarian duct

The Wolffian duct

ㅇㅇ + 그림 하나.

### 2. Hormonal Control of Sex

#### 2.1. The Principal Male and Female Hormones

- androgens: male hormones
  - e.g. testosterone
- estrogens: female hormones
  - e.g. estradiol
- aromatase: converts testosterone into estradiol.

men also have estrogens, and women also have androgens.<br>
But men have higher concentrations of androgens,<br>
and women have more estrogens.

- Steroid Hormones
  - fatty, easily passing through cell membranes
  - bind to cytosolic receptors => direct access to nucleus and gene expression.

* **Direct and indirect effcts of steroid sex hormones on neurons** (imp)



- Testes
  - 
- Ovaries
  - Hormones : estradiol, progesterone
  - estrous cycle



#### 2.2. The Control of Sex Hormones by the Pituitary and Hypothalamus

1. Anterior pituitary

Gonadotropins: LH and FSH

=> normal sexual development and function

2. Hypothalamus
   1. Release Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH)
   2. => nyum nyum.
   3. Neural activity affected by : phy
      1. Daily variations of light level
      2. Length of daylight (Seasonal variation)
      3. Melatonin, pineal gland
      4. menstrual cycle?

Effects of LH and FSH ㅇㅇ

### 3. The Neural Basis of Sexual Behaviors

#### 3.1. Reproductive Organs and Their Control

1. arousal
2. plateau
3. orgasm
4. resolution

nyum nyum

#### 3.2. Mammalian Mating Strategies

- polygamy
  - polygyny
  - monogamy
- monogamy

#### 3.3. The Neurochemistry of Reproductive Behavior

- Studies from voles.

- Studies of humans


#### 3.4. Love, Bonding, and the Human Brain

similar.

vasopressin receptors nyum nyum.


### 4. Why & How Male and Female Brains Differ

- sexual dimorphisms : A sex-related difference in structure or behavior.

